

Writing Project Responses



Claire (Qi) Ding



Email: qiding.purdue@gmail.com



When a new business
signs up for stripe, we need to verify that the products or services being
offered don’t violate our terms of service. Given that thousands of new
accounts are registered on stripe each day. How would you approach setting up a
process to monitor and track this information efficiently?



First, I will tag the products or services with
their segmentations, location, high-moderate-low volume, business size, time
& amount etc.  The tags will be ingested
in a background dataset and stored chronically in the data warehouse. Regular
reporting process on a daily, monthly, quarterly and yearly would be
implemented to monitor business activities and transactions. 

 

Based on the data ingestion, a score based audit
system can be utilized to detect abnormal activities. For example, segmentation
can have 10 risk levels including a segmentation risk score of 10-100. Food
business is considered low risk segment, so it will have a 10 at this section.
Another section can be monthly or daily transaction amount. If it’s under
$1000, it will have a transaction risk score of 10. By adding up the risk
scores, each business would have an overall risk score, and thresholds would be
set to filter on risk score at each section and the overall risk score. Hence,
businesses can be ranked on how much the scores are above the thresholds, or
filtered based on location or segmentation. 

 

 

The scoring system can monitor business
transactions on a monthly or daily basis, and it will categorize businesses
into four categories: a) High risk, high impacts. This category should have top
priority and abnormal activities should be immediately reported and
investigated. 

b) Moderate to low risk, high impacts. This
category should have secondary priority, and their activities can be closely
monitored. Communication with the account owner would be required.  c) High risk, low impacts. Automated messages
can be generated to notify the business owners. d) Moderate to low risk, low
impacts.  This type of activities can be
monitored and reported on a weekly or monthly basis. 















After you have set up
your process above, now imagine the amount of accounts you need to screen
suddenly doubles overnights. What (if anything) would you change in your
processes to manage this new level of demand?



The aforementioned process would be a very rough
draft of the monitor system. It requires an application that we can run the
algorithm every day and it’s based on a simplified risk scoring system. When
the volume of accounts increases, a more sophisticated algorithm would be
required to screen the accounts. 

 

When the amount of data increases, a distributed
system that collects and analyzes user data can be implemented (e.g., HIVE).
When the systematic capacity increases, more behavioral, transactional and user
data would be ingested. Using the data, a much more sophisticated scoring
system should be implemented to reflect the risk level of the businesses. 

Historical data can be pulled and build a risk
model to calculate a more accurate risk score. The model can be implemented to
upgrade the account screening algorithm. 

Accounts will be screened on more criteria, and
the thresholds can be adjusted accordingly. The new screening system would be a
lot more focused and efficient that the accounts with the highest risk scores
would be examined more closely. The risk model would also provide clearer
instructions on where to look for the problems. 












Describe a time you
led a challenging project from start to finish in your current or past role.
What was the goal of the project and what obstacles did you overcome to reach
it? How did you mobilize stakeholders (or yourself) to overcome these
obstacles, what were the biggest challenges, and what would you have done
differently in hindsight? What processes did you put in place to make future
project easier? 



             I
initiated a project that utilized machine learning technique to help my
previous employer to detect pharmacy fraudulent behaviors. The goal of this
project is to build risk models to detect fraud at the pharmacy level and at
the claim level more efficiently. Currently, more manual work is involved in
fraud detection, but after the data warehouse was built, the company data
ingestion capacity increased. With sufficient data, I realized we can use a
machine learning model to automate the fraud detection process. 



            The most
challenging part is to present how the new technique is worth the investment in
saving the operational costs in the future. Especially when the industry is not
highly involved with using data services to automate some internal processes,
it’s challenging to show the stakeholders my expected outcomes. To solve this
issue, I pulled the pharmacy and claim data for the previous month, and built a
sample model to show potential outcomes from this model and how we can utilize
the model. Based on the results, my ideal outcome would be a list of pharmacies
and claims that are at highest risk level and the investigation team can
immediately take actions on them without lots of manual work. The management
team thinks this project aligns with their goal of developing the company as an
industry thought leader, so they gave me permission and resources to continue
with this project. Therefore I was able to pull more data and provided the list
of pharmacies with highest risk for the investigation team.



             If I
could do this project again, I would get more people involved on this project,
rather than me working on this project from end to end. Fraud detection is a
project that requires insights from many departments and it should be a team
project because a large amount of information is processed. I would prefer
leading a team of data scientist and developers to work on the full cycle or
pulling data, cleansing data, data analyzing and modeling, testing the model
and model deploy. I would also implement a corresponding data ingestion process
for the risk management purpose. 



